Release notes v5.0.0-preview3 (#1645)
dotnet/SqlClient: release-notes/5.0/5.0.0-preview3.md

### Added

- Added support for `TDS 8`. To use TDS 8, users should specify Encrypt=Strict in the connection string. [#1608](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1608) [Read more](#tds-8-enhanced-security)
- Added support for specifying Server SPN and Failover Server SPN on the connection. [#1607](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1607) [Read more](#server-spn)
- Added support for aliases when targeting .NET Core on Windows. [#1588](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1588) [Read more](#support-for-aliases)

### Fixed

- Fixed naming, order, and formatting for `SqlDiagnosticsListener` on .NET Core and .NET. [#1637] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1637)
- Fixed NullReferenceException during Azure Active Directory authentication. [#1625] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1625)
- Added CommandText length validation when using stored procedure command types. [#1484](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1484)
- Fixed `GetSchema("StructuredTypeMembers")` to return correct schema information. [#1500] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1500), [#1639](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1639)

> - Fixed **Null Reference Exception** when using `SqlDependency.Start` against an Azure SQL Database.[#1294] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1294)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed NullReferenceException when using `SqlDependency.Start` against an Azure SQL Database.[#1294] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1294)
```

- Added support for aliases when targeting .NET Core on Windows. [#1588](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1588) [Read more](#support-for-aliases)

### Fixed

- Fixed naming, order, and formatting for `SqlDiagnosticsListener` on .NET Core and .NET. [#1637] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1637)
- Fixed NullReferenceException during Azure Active Directory authentication. [#1625] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1625)
- Added CommandText length validation when using stored procedure command types. [#1484](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1484)
- Fixed `GetSchema("StructuredTypeMembers")` to return correct schema information. [#1500] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1500), [#1639](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1639)
- Fixed NullReferenceException when using `SqlDependency.Start` against an Azure SQL Database.[#1294] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1294)
- Send the correct retained transaction descriptor in the MARS TDS Header when there is no current transaction on .NET 5+ and .NET Core. [#1624] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1624)

> - Parallelize SSRP requests on Linux and macOS when MultiSubNetFailover is specified. [#1578] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1578)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Parallelize SSRP requests on Linux and macOS when MultiSubNetFailover is specified. [#1578] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1578)
- Adjust the default ConnectRetryCount against Azure Synapse OnDemand endpoints [#1626] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1626)
```

### Changed

- Dropped the `Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.Server` namespace and replaced it with supported types from the [Microsoft.SqlServer.Server](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/tree/main/src/Microsoft.SqlServer.Server) package.[#1585](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1585)
- Code health improvements [#1353](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1353) [#1354](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1354) [#1525](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1525) [#1186](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1186)

> - Update Azure Identity dependency from 1.5.0 to 1.6.0.[#1611](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1611)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Update Azure Identity dependency from 1.5.0 to 1.6.0.[#1611](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1611)
- Improved Regex for SqlCommandSet [#1548] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1548)
- Improved TdsParserStateObjectManaged to address NullReferenceException by adding nullable annotations. [#1555] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1555)
```

- Parallelize SSRP requests on Linux and macOS when MultiSubNetFailover is specified. [#1578] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1578)
- Adjust the default ConnectRetryCount against Azure Synapse OnDemand endpoints [#1626] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1626)

### Changed

- Dropped the `Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.Server` namespace and replaced it with supported types from the [Microsoft.SqlServer.Server](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/tree/main/src/Microsoft.SqlServer.Server) package.[#1585](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1585)
- Code health improvements [#1353](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1353) [#1354](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1354) [#1525](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1525) [#1186](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1186)
- Update Azure Identity dependency from 1.5.0 to 1.6.0.[#1611](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1611)
- Improved Regex for SqlCommandSet [#1548] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1548)

> - Improved TdsParserStateObjectManaged to address NullReferenceException by adding nullable annotations. [#1555] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1555)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Rework on `TdsParserStateObjectManaged` with nullable annotations. [#1555] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1555)
```

# Release Notes

## Microsoft.Data.SqlClient 5.0.0-preview3 released 15 June 2022

> 

Reviewer 2: Should we list Encrypt  changes as a breaking change? We have added a new value "Strict", "Optional" and "Mandatory".

This update brings the below changes over the previous release:

### Added

> - Added support for `TDS 8`. To use TDS 8, users should specify Encrypt=Strict in the connection string. Strict mode disables TrustServerCertificate (always treated as False in Strict mode). HostNameInCertificate has been added to help some Strict mode scenarios. [#1608](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1608)

Reviewer: Please add a section with sample connection strings with additional descriptions and link it here.
```suggestion
- Increased the security by adding support of `TDS 8`. [#1608](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1608)
```

> - Added support to skip the driver-generated Server Prinicipal Name when using SPN and Failover Partner SPN options in a connection string.

Reviewer: The missing link to the PR.
You can create a section for additional information and link it here.
```suggestion
- Added support server SPN option. [#1607](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1607)
```

> - Added support for aliases for NetCore on Windows. [#1588](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1588)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added support for aliases for .NET Core on Windows. [#1588](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1588)
```

### Fixed

> - Fixed naming, order and formatting for dignostics. [#1637] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1637)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed naming, order, and formatting for `SqlDiagnosticsListener` on .NET Core and .NET. [#1637] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1637)
```

> - Handle NRE on Azure federated authentication. [#1625] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1625)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed **Null Reference Exception** on Azure federated authentication. [#1625] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1625)
```

> - Fixed CommandText Length for Stored Procedures. [#1484](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1484)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Added CommandText length validation when using stored procedure command types. [#1484](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1484)
```

> - Fxied TYPE_SCHEME members in StructuredTypeMembers. [#1500] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1500)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fxied `GetSchema("StructuredTypeMembers")` to return correct scheme. [#1500] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1500), [#1639](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1639)
```

> - Fixed issue SqlDependency.Start throws NRE against Azure SQL Database.[#1294] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1294)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed **Null Reference Exception** using `SqlDependency.Start` against Azure SQL Databases.[#1294] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1294)
```

> - Fixed retained Transaction descriptor in MARDS TDS Header for .Net 5+ and . NetCore. [#1624] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1624)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed retained transaction descriptor in MARS TDS Header for .NET 5+ and .NET Core. [#1624] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1624)
```

> - Fixed Parallel SSRP Requests for Linux and Mac OS when MultiSubNetFailover is specified. [#1578] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1578)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Parallelize SSRP requests on Linux and macOS when MultiSubNetFailover is specified. [#1578] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1578)
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Changed

> - Dropping the Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.Server namespace for supported types by Microsoft.SqlServer.Server package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Dropped the `Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.Server` namespace for supported types by [Microsoft.SqlServer.Server](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/tree/main/src/Microsoft.SqlServer.Server) package.[#1585](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1585)
```

- Code health improvements [#1353](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1353) [#1354](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1354) [#1525](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1525) [#1186](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1186)

> - Improve error reporting from SqlDBManager. [#1617] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1617)

Reviewer 4: What is SqlDB Manager?

> - Improve error reporting from SqlDBManager. [#1617] (https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1617)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> - Update Azure Identity from 1.5.0 to 1.6.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Update Azure Identity from 1.5.0 to 1.6.0.[#1611](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1611)
```

## Target Platform Support

- .NET Framework 4.6.2+ (Windows x86, Windows x64)
- .NET Core 3.1+ (Windows x86, Windows x64, Windows ARM64, Windows ARM, Linux, macOS)
- .NET Standard 2.0+ (Windows x86, Windows x64, Windows ARM64, Windows ARM, Linux, macOS)

### Dependencies

#### .NET Framework

> - Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.SNI 5.0.0-preview2.22084.1

Reviewer 2: this and some of the below version numbers are changed please check with the nuget from artifact

> - Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.SNI 5.0.0-preview2.22084.1

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.SNI 5.0.0-preview3.22165.1
```

> - Azure.Identity 1.5.0
> - Microsoft.Identity.Client 4.30.1

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Azure.Identity 1.6.0
- Microsoft.Identity.Client 4.43.2
```

- Microsoft.IdentityModel.JsonWebTokens 6.8.0
- Microsoft.IdentityModel.Protocols.OpenIdConnect 6.8.0
- System.Buffers 4.5.1
- System.Configuration.ConfigurationManager 5.0.0
- System.IO 4.3.0
- System.Runtime.InteropServices.RuntimeInformation 4.3.0
- System.Security.Cryptography.Algorithms 4.3.1
- System.Security.Cryptography.Primitives 4.3.0
- System.Text.Encodings.Web 4.7.2

#### .NET Core

> - Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.SNI.runtime 5.0.0-preview2.22084.1
> - Azure.Identity 1.5.0
> - Microsoft.Identity.Client 4.30.1

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.SNI.runtime 5.0.0-preview3.22165.1
- Azure.Identity 1.6.0
- Microsoft.Identity.Client 4.43.2
```

- Microsoft.IdentityModel.Protocols.OpenIdConnect 6.8.0
- Microsoft.IdentityModel.JsonWebTokens 6.8.0
- Microsoft.Win32.Registry 5.0.0
- System.Buffers 4.5.1
- System.Configuration.ConfigurationManager 5.0.0
- System.Diagnostics.DiagnosticSource 5.0.0
- System.IO 4.3.0
- System.Runtime.Caching 5.0.0
- System.Text.Encoding.CodePages 5.0.0
- System.Text.Encodings.Web 4.7.2
- System.Resources.ResourceManager 4.3.0
- System.Security.Cryptography.Cng 5.0.0
- System.Security.Principal.Windows 5.0.0

#### .NET Standard

> - Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.SNI.runtime 5.0.0-preview2.22084.1
> - Azure.Identity 1.5.0
> - Microsoft.Identity.Client 4.30.1

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.SNI.runtime 5.0.0-preview3.22165.1
- Azure.Identity 1.6.0
- Microsoft.Identity.Client 4.43.2
```
